---
title: "Part-aligned pose-guided recurrent network for action recognition"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019/08/01-PR2019
date: 2019/08/01
venue: 'Pattern Recognition (PR)'
citation: '<b>Linjiang Huang*</b>, Yan Huang, Wanli Ouyang, Liang Wang. &amp;quot;Part-aligned pose-guided recurrent network for action recognition&amp;quot;.<i>Pattern Recognition</i> <b>PR 2019</b>.'
---

## Abstract
Action recognition using pose information has drawn much attention recently. However, most previous approaches treat human pose as a whole or just use pose to extract robust features. Actually, human body parts play an important role in action, and so modeling spatio-temporal information of body parts can effectively assist in classifying actions. In this paper, we propose a Part-aligned Pose-guided Recurrent Network (P2RN) for action recognition. The model mainly consists of two modules, i.e., part alignment module and part pooling module, which are used for part representation learning and part-related feature fusion, respectively. The part-alignment module incorporates an auto-transformer attention, aiming to capture spatial configuration of body parts and predict pose attention maps. While the part pooling module exploits both symmetry and complementarity of body parts to produce fused body representation. The whole network is a recurrent network which can exploit the body representation and simultaneously model spatio-temporal evolutions of human body parts. Experiments on two publicly available benchmark datasets show the state-of-the-art performance and demonstrate the power of the two proposed modules.
